AUTHOR: Diana Chalakova

REFLECTION:
My game is about a girl who loves to plant flowers. You start the game off with her waking up in her room and receive instructions to go to one of the three pots sitting in her room. Each pot is a respective flower, with the right one being sunflowers, middle one daisys, and the right one tulips. Once you get to the planting scenes, you have to plant 5 seeds of the respective flower. Once all the seeds are planted, you receive instructions to get back into bed because you're so sleepy, and the game restarts.

Initially when planning out my game, my plan was that once planted, each flower would lead to a different nature scene that represents a place that's important to me in my life to add a more autobiographicaly element. I won't lie, I've simply learned that at this very moment that's outside of my abilities. This is why I pivoted towards just showing my love for gardening and flowers as the autobiographical element - the women in my family love gardening so it feels very relaxing to me due to that background, and anyone who knows me will absolutely confirm that any time I'm on a walk anywhere, I will stop and take a million different pictures of flowers. 

I don't have too many reflections on my final game to be honest, I  did not know that games took so many lines of code so that was a bit exhausting. I didn't particularly enjoy the process of this and I don't plan on being a game-maker, but I did enjoy putting in the assets in and seeing it all together, it was very satisfying an I liked troubleshooting and seeking out answers to my questions! Love a good problem to solve. There are a couple things I wish I could have troubleshooted more, namely the text box remaining in the "you're so sleepy" black screen scene, but I don't think it's a hugeeeeee issue, just ugh a little annoying and I didn't have time to work on the game after Friday due to the Major Studio project for Monday morning. Also, a greivance I had was that while working on the last scene, I had to keep playing my game to see if the changes I made to my code were working - I feel like there must have been a way around this?

The play testing was very interesting actually, I know that when it comes to UX and interaction design (which is what my background is in), you can never predict how the user will act without testing, since even what the user reports they'd do might be different from what they actually do. The play testing was a great reminder of this, as I found myself having to say "oh wait, you do this instead actually" to my testers so they could play it properly. This was specifically around how to interact with the pots to trigger the scene change as well as where on the bed to land to sleep, so I had to go back in and elaborate on the instruction sets. The bed directions are a bit silly, but actually add a more autobiographical element since I do end up curled against the wall off my pillow when I sleep...weird, I know.

Credit to ChatGPT for the code of the sunflower, daisy, and workshopping of the constructor for scene 3 to import the existing planted pot data, as that one was really a pain to figure out; also for answering one or two desperate "why is this code not working" questions. Credit also to my boyfriend who's in computer science not only for looking over my code and making fun of silly lines and variable names, but also for being kind enough to recommend more efficient line phrasing and renaming the variables for me so I stopped getting lost in my code. 